Improve React docs (#176)
transloadit/uppy.io: docs/framework-integrations/react.mdx

other UI elements. The components can be used with either [React][] or
API-compatible alternatives such as [Preact][].

:::caution

If you find yourself writing many instances of `useState` and `useEffect` to
achieve something with Uppy in React, you are most likely breaking React best
practices. Consider reading
“[You Might Not Need an Effect](https://react.dev/learn/you-might-not-need-an-effect)”
and looking at our examples below.

:::

### Components

The following components are exported from `@uppy/react`:

- `<Dashboard />` renders [`@uppy/dashboard`](/docs/dashboard)
- `<DragDrop />` renders [`@uppy/drag-drop`](/docs/drag-drop)
- `<ProgressBar />` renders [`@uppy/progress-bar`](/docs/progress-bar)
- `<StatusBar />` renders [`@uppy/status-bar`](/docs/status-bar)

### Hooks

`useUppyState(uppy, selector)`

Use this hook when you need to access Uppy’s state reactively. Most of the
times, this is needed if you are building a custom UI for Uppy in React.

```js

> // IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function to prevent the state from recreating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function to prevent Uppy from being reinstantiated on every render.
```

const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const files = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.files);
const totalProgress = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.totalProgress);
// We can also get specific plugin state.
// Note that the value on `plugins` depends on the `id` of the plugin.
const metaFields = useUppyState(
	uppy,
	(state) => state.plugins?.Dashboard?.metaFields,
);

> ```

Reviewer 2: This can be abstracted one level deeper to offer a better DX, while avoiding prop drilling with the `uppy` variable:

```jsx
const UppyContext = createContext(null)

function useUppyState(selector) {
  const uppy = useContext(UppyContext)
  if (!uppy) throw new Error('needs to be in context')
  return whateverUseUppyStateDidBefore(uppy, selector)
}

function useUppy() {
  return useContext(UppyContext)
}

function UppyProvider(props) {
  const uppy = useRef()

  if (!uppy.current) {
    uppy.current = new Uppy(props.options)
  }

  return (
    <UppyContext.Provider value={uppy.current}>
      {props.children}
    </UppyContext.Provider>
  )
}
```

This would allow folks:

- to wrap each component that needs its own instance of Uppy with the provider
- to call `useUppyState` anywhere in the tree without having to pass `uppy` down
- to update Uppy's options in `useEffect` hooks or event handlers from inside the tree by using `useUppy`

Author: I'll copy my comment from the PR itself as I still stand by it.

---

I thought about it but refrained from doing so:

> Context is very tempting to use! However, this also means it’s too easy to overuse it. **Just because you need to pass some props several levels deep doesn’t mean you should put that information into context** — [React docs](https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context#before-you-use-context)

The React docs use cases for adding context also don't align with what Uppy is used for. Realistically, there is only one page where people upload in most apps and it would be overkill to provide a context for this in my opinion. I'd rather keep it simple and explicit for now. Perhaps reconsidering when we see people needing this more.

You can see all the values you can access on the
[`State`](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/main/packages/%40uppy/core/types/index.d.ts#L190)
type. If you are accessing plugin state, you would have to look at the types of
the plugin.

## Examples

### Example: basic component

Here we have a basic component which ties Uppy’s state to the component. This
means you can render multiple instances. But be aware that as your component
unmounts, for instance because the user navigates to a different page, Uppy’s
state will be lost and uploads will stop.

:::note

If you render multiple instances of Uppy, make sure to give each instance a
unique `id`.

:::

```js
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import Webcam from '@uppy/webcam';
import { Dashboard } from '@uppy/react';

import '@uppy/core/dist/style.min.css';
import '@uppy/dashboard/dist/style.min.css';
import '@uppy/webcam/dist/style.min.css';

function Component() {

> 	// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function to prevent the state from recreating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function to prevent Uppy from being reinstantiated on every render.
```

	const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy().use(Webcam));

	return <Dashboard uppy={uppy} plugins={['Webcam']} />;
}
```

### Example: keep Uppy state and uploads while navigating between pages

When you want Uppy’s state to persist and keep uploads running between pages,
you can
[lift the state up](https://react.dev/learn/sharing-state-between-components#lifting-state-up-by-example).

```js
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import { Dashboard, useUppyState } from '@uppy/react';

function Page1() {
	// ...
}

function Page2({ uppy }) {
	const totalProgress = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.totalProgress);
	return (
		<>
			<p>{totalProgress}</p>
			<Dashboard id="dashboard" uppy={uppy} />
		</>
	);
}

export default function App() {
	// keeping the uppy instance alive above the pages the user can switch during uploading
	const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

	return (

> 		<>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // Add your router here
		<>
```
